README.md, before:

<div id="top"></div>



<br />

## Morion
Morion is a python framework for easily interacting with documents in a MongoDB database.


<a href="https://stgit.dcs.gla.ac.uk/team-project-h/2021/csp3/csp3-main/-/wikis/home"><strong>Read the Wiki for more information»</strong></a>

<a href="https://stgit.dcs.gla.ac.uk/team-project-h/2021/csp3/csp3-dissertation">View Dissertation</a>

<a href="https://stgit.dcs.gla.ac.uk/team-project-h/2021/csp3/csp3-main">Report Bug</a>

<a href="https://stgit.dcs.gla.ac.uk/team-project-h/2021/csp3/csp3-main">Request Feature</a>


<!-- TABLE OF CONTENTS -->
<details>
  <summary>Table of Contents</summary>
  <ol>
    <li>
      <a href="#about-the-project">About The Project</a>
      <ul>
        <li><a href="#built-with">Built With</a></li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="#getting-started">Getting Started</a>
      <ul>
        <li><a href="#prerequisites">Prerequisites</a></li>
        <li><a href="#installation">Installation</a></li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li><a href="#user-guide">User Guide</a></li>
    <li><a href="#roadmap">Roadmap</a></li>
    <li><a href="#license">License</a></li>
    <li><a href="#contact">Contact</a></li>
    <li><a href="#acknowledgments">Acknowledgments</a></li>
  </ol>
</details>



<!-- ABOUT THE PROJECT -->
## About The Project

This is a project that allows researchers to robustly upload documents into a MongoDB database. To download documents back out,
and to analyse their findings, all from within a python environment.


<p align="right">(<a href="#top">back to top</a>)</p>

### Built With

* [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/)
* [Pydantic](https://pydantic-docs.helpmanual.io/)
* [Pymongo](https://pypi.org/project/pymongo/)

<p align="right">(<a href="#top">back to top</a>)</p>



<!-- GETTING STARTED -->
## Getting Started
You can find the main files of the project in `src/`, and detailed examples on how to use the project in `examples/`.

`src` can be broken down into the following sections:

1. `morion/` - The core package for uploading, downloading, and interacting with the database.
2. `UofG_PP/` - A project that uses `morion` to create models, with examples on how to create readers and writers
that show how `morion` provides functionality for robust interaction with the database.

### Prerequisites

You will need a MongoDB database with read/write access.
You can either install one on your local machine or on a server you have access to.
For more information, check out: https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/installation/

##### MongoDB installation on a CentOS 8 server

Follow the instructions [here](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/tutorial/install-mongodb-on-red-hat/) to install and boot up a MongoDB database on a CentOS 8 machine. Once the `mongod` service has been started, you can access `mongo` shell by using `mongo` command. 

Then, it is recommended that you create a superuser:
1. Open up `mongo` shell.
2. Run `use admin` to switch to the admin database.
3. Create a new superuser by pasting in the following (change username and password as you like - you will use them later for accessing this database)
```
db.createUser(
  {
    "user" : "<your_username>",
    "pwd" : "<your_password>",
    "roles" : [
          {
            "role" : "userAdminAnyDatabase",
            "db" : "admin"
          }
    ]
  }
)
```

Finally, there is one more step before you can start using the database. In order to be able to connect from the outside world, `bindIp` option must be changed in `/etc/mongod.conf`. You can edit `/etc/mongod.conf` using a pre-installed editor like Vi. Run `sudo vi /etc/mongod.conf` and set the `bindIp` option to `0.0.0.0` to allow access from anywhere. It is generally unsafe to allow access from any ip address, so as soon as you know which machines you need access from, add their ip adresses along with `127.0.0.1` and remove `0.0.0.0` from the list. After `/etc/mongod.conf` has been saved, restart the `mongod` service by running `sudo systemctl restart mongod`.

Once the database is set up, you can connect to it via a *connection string*, which has the following format:

`mongodb://<your_username>:<your_password>@<server_ip_address>`


<p align="right">(<a href="#top">back to top</a>)</p>

### Installation

1. Clone the repository into your system, then run `pip install .` on the top level directory, where setup.py is located.
2. In the python commandline, run 
```python
  from morion import setup
  setup()
```
3. You will be asked for a connection to a mongoDB.
4. Done! You are now connected to the database and can run morion methods from your python shell.



<p align="right">(<a href="#top">back to top</a>)</p>



<!-- USAGE EXAMPLES -->
## User Guide

This is to serve as a quick start guide into using morion. Be sure to check out the `examples/` folder for more in depth examples
as well as `src/UofG_PP/`for a complete project that uses morion.

### Creating a model

Here is a basic model for holding infromation about a wafer.

```python
from morion import MongoModel
from datetime import datetime

class Wafer(MongoModel):
  name: str
  production_date: datetime
  oxide_thickness: float
  arbitrary_property_x: int
  arbitrary_property_y: int
```

`MongoModel` is a pydantic model, read the pydantic [docs](https://pydantic-docs.helpmanual.io/usage/models/) for more information about model.

### Registering a reader
Suppose we have a wafer file `wafer.txt` structured like so:
```
Wafer
3374-15
2022-03-18 15:06:57.588051

oxide_thickness  0.13
arbitrary_property_x  12
arbitrary_property_y  10
```

You can create and reader to read the file:

```python
from morion.filereader import register_reader

def is_wafer_file(filepath: str):
  """Check whether a given file is a Wafer"""
  with open(filepath) as f:
    return f.readline().strip() == 'Wafer'

@register_reader(use_when=is_wafer_file)
def wafer_reader(filepath: str) -> Wafer:
  d = {}
  with open(filepath) as f:
    next(f) # Ignore first line, as it's just 'Wafer'
    d['name'] = next(f)
    d['production_date'] = next(f)

    for line in f:
      line = line.strip()
      if line == '': # Ignore empty lines
        continue
      key, value = line.split('  ')
      d[key] = value
    
    # Construct our Wafer
    return Wafer(**d)
```

### Registering a writer
```python
```

### Uploading to the database
Once we've registered our reader, we can directly upload a file to the database
```python
from morion import upload_file
# Make sure you've also imported your wafer reader.

upload_file('wafer.txt') # morion will take care of the rest.
```

### Downloading from the database
```python
```

### Interacting with models
```python
```


<p align="right">(<a href="#top">back to top</a>)</p>



Check out the docs for further explanations on individual methods.

<p align="right">(<a href="#top">back to top</a>)</p>



<!-- LICENSE -->
## License

Distributed under the MIT License. See `LICENSE` for more information.

<p align="right">(<a href="#top">back to top</a>)</p>



<!-- CONTACT -->
## Contact

James McClure, Product Owner - 2385464m@student.gla.ac.uk

Danial Tariq, Tool Smith - 2460201t@student.gla.ac.uk

Ciara Losel, Quality assurance manager - 2438870l@student.gla.ac.uk

Franciszek Sowul, Chief architect - 2482997s@student.gla.ac.uk

Eren Oezveren, UX designer - 2440801o@student.gla.ac.uk


Project Link: [https://stgit.dcs.gla.ac.uk/team-project-h/2021/csp3/csp3-main](https://stgit.dcs.gla.ac.uk/team-project-h/2021/csp3/csp3-main)

<p align="right">(<a href="#top">back to top</a>)</p>



<!-- ACKNOWLEDGMENTS -->
## Acknowledgments

Douglas Russel, for being our coach, helping us improve our software process with useful advice 

Dima Maneuski, for being a great customer

<p align="right">(<a href="#top">back to top</a>)</p>

Commit message:

Update README.md - usage examples

README.md, after:

<div id="top"></div>



<br />

## Morion
Morion is a python framework for easily interacting with documents in a MongoDB database.


<a href="https://stgit.dcs.gla.ac.uk/team-project-h/2021/csp3/csp3-main/-/wikis/home"><strong>Read the Wiki for more information»</strong></a>

<a href="https://stgit.dcs.gla.ac.uk/team-project-h/2021/csp3/csp3-dissertation">View Dissertation</a>

<a href="https://stgit.dcs.gla.ac.uk/team-project-h/2021/csp3/csp3-main">Report Bug</a>

<a href="https://stgit.dcs.gla.ac.uk/team-project-h/2021/csp3/csp3-main">Request Feature</a>


<!-- TABLE OF CONTENTS -->
<details>
  <summary>Table of Contents</summary>
  <ol>
    <li>
      <a href="#about-the-project">About The Project</a>
      <ul>
        <li><a href="#built-with">Built With</a></li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="#getting-started">Getting Started</a>
      <ul>
        <li><a href="#prerequisites">Prerequisites</a></li>
        <li><a href="#installation">Installation</a></li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li><a href="#user-guide">User Guide</a></li>
    <li><a href="#roadmap">Roadmap</a></li>
    <li><a href="#license">License</a></li>
    <li><a href="#contact">Contact</a></li>
    <li><a href="#acknowledgments">Acknowledgments</a></li>
  </ol>
</details>



<!-- ABOUT THE PROJECT -->
## About The Project

This is a project that allows researchers to robustly upload documents into a MongoDB database. To download documents back out,
and to analyse their findings, all from within a python environment.


<p align="right">(<a href="#top">back to top</a>)</p>

### Built With

* [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/)
* [Pydantic](https://pydantic-docs.helpmanual.io/)
* [Pymongo](https://pypi.org/project/pymongo/)

<p align="right">(<a href="#top">back to top</a>)</p>



<!-- GETTING STARTED -->
## Getting Started
You can find the main files of the project in `src/`, and detailed examples on how to use the project in `examples/`.

`src` can be broken down into the following sections:

1. `morion/` - The core package for uploading, downloading, and interacting with the database.
2. `UofG_PP/` - A project that uses `morion` to create models, with examples on how to create readers and writers
that show how `morion` provides functionality for robust interaction with the database.

### Prerequisites

You will need a MongoDB database with read/write access.
You can either install one on your local machine or on a server you have access to.
For more information, check out: https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/installation/

##### MongoDB installation on a CentOS 8 server

Follow the instructions [here](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/tutorial/install-mongodb-on-red-hat/) to install and boot up a MongoDB database on a CentOS 8 machine. Once the `mongod` service has been started, you can access `mongo` shell by using `mongo` command. 

Then, it is recommended that you create a superuser:
1. Open up `mongo` shell.
2. Run `use admin` to switch to the admin database.
3. Create a new superuser by pasting in the following (change username and password as you like - you will use them later for accessing this database)
```
db.createUser(
  {
    "user" : "<your_username>",
    "pwd" : "<your_password>",
    "roles" : [
          {
            "role" : "userAdminAnyDatabase",
            "db" : "admin"
          }
    ]
  }
)
```

Finally, there is one more step before you can start using the database. In order to be able to connect from the outside world, `bindIp` option must be changed in `/etc/mongod.conf`. You can edit `/etc/mongod.conf` using a pre-installed editor like Vi. Run `sudo vi /etc/mongod.conf` and set the `bindIp` option to `0.0.0.0` to allow access from anywhere. It is generally unsafe to allow access from any ip address, so as soon as you know which machines you need access from, add their ip adresses along with `127.0.0.1` and remove `0.0.0.0` from the list. After `/etc/mongod.conf` has been saved, restart the `mongod` service by running `sudo systemctl restart mongod`.

Once the database is set up, you can connect to it via a *connection string*, which has the following format:

`mongodb://<your_username>:<your_password>@<server_ip_address>`


<p align="right">(<a href="#top">back to top</a>)</p>

### Installation

1. Clone the repository into your system, then run `pip install .` on the top level directory, where setup.py is located.
2. In the python commandline, run 
```python
  from morion import setup
  setup()
```
3. You will be asked for a connection to a mongoDB.
4. Done! You are now connected to the database and can run morion methods from your python shell.



<p align="right">(<a href="#top">back to top</a>)</p>



<!-- USAGE EXAMPLES -->
## User Guide

This is to serve as a quick start guide into using morion. Be sure to check out the `examples/` folder for more in depth examples
as well as `src/UofG_PP/`for a complete project that uses morion.

### Creating a model

Here is a basic model for holding infromation about a wafer.

```python
from morion import MongoModel
from datetime import datetime

class Wafer(MongoModel):
  name: str
  production_date: datetime
  oxide_thickness: float
  arbitrary_property_x: int
  arbitrary_property_y: int
```

`MongoModel` is a pydantic model, read the pydantic [docs](https://pydantic-docs.helpmanual.io/usage/models/) for more information about model.

### Registering a reader
Suppose we have a wafer file `wafer.txt` structured like so:
```
Wafer
3374-15
2022-03-18 15:06:57.588051

oxide_thickness  0.13
arbitrary_property_x  12
arbitrary_property_y  10
```

You can create and reader to read the file:

```python
from morion.filereader import register_reader

def is_wafer_file(filepath: str):
  """Check whether a given file is a Wafer"""
  with open(filepath) as f:
    return f.readline().strip() == 'Wafer'

@register_reader(use_when=is_wafer_file)
def wafer_reader(filepath: str) -> Wafer:
  d = {}
  with open(filepath) as f:
    next(f) # Ignore first line, as it's just 'Wafer'
    d['name'] = next(f)
    d['production_date'] = next(f)

    for line in f:
      line = line.strip()
      if line == '': # Ignore empty lines
        continue
      key, value = line.split('  ')
      d[key] = value
    
    # Construct our Wafer
    return Wafer(**d)
```

### Registering a writer
This is an example of a writer compatible with the reader above, that is it writes files that can be read by that reader.

```python
from morion.filewriter import register_writer

@register_writer(model=Wafer, use_when=lambda _:True)
def die_writer(filepath: str, model: Wafer):
  model_dict = model.dict(by_alias=True)
  del model_dict['_id']

  with open(filepath, 'w') as f:
    f.write('Wafer\n') # this is for the reader to know it's a file describing a Wafer

    f.write(f'{model_dict.pop('name')}\n')
    f.write(f'{model_dict.pop('production_date')}\n')

    for field, value in model_dict.items():
      f.write(f'{field}  {value}\n')
```

### Uploading to the database
Once we've registered our reader, we can directly upload a file to the database
```python
from morion import upload_file
# Make sure you've also imported your wafer reader.

upload_file('wafer.txt') # morion will take care of the rest.
```

### Downloading from the database
The downloading of specific model requires that there is at least one writer that can write this model to a file.
```python
from morion import download_many
# Make sure you've also imported a relevant writer.

# This will download all wafers which have 'smoky quartz' material type and save them in wafers directory
download_many(Wafer, directory='wafers/', filepath="{name}.txt", material_type='smoky quartz')
```

### Interacting with models
See `examples/` directory for examples of interacting with models.


<p align="right">(<a href="#top">back to top</a>)</p>



Check out the docs for further explanations on individual methods.

<p align="right">(<a href="#top">back to top</a>)</p>



<!-- LICENSE -->
## License

Distributed under the MIT License. See `LICENSE` for more information.

<p align="right">(<a href="#top">back to top</a>)</p>



<!-- CONTACT -->
## Contact

James McClure, Product Owner - 2385464m@student.gla.ac.uk

Danial Tariq, Tool Smith - 2460201t@student.gla.ac.uk

Ciara Losel, Quality assurance manager - 2438870l@student.gla.ac.uk

Franciszek Sowul, Chief architect - 2482997s@student.gla.ac.uk

Eren Oezveren, UX designer - 2440801o@student.gla.ac.uk


Project Link: [https://stgit.dcs.gla.ac.uk/team-project-h/2021/csp3/csp3-main](https://stgit.dcs.gla.ac.uk/team-project-h/2021/csp3/csp3-main)

<p align="right">(<a href="#top">back to top</a>)</p>



<!-- ACKNOWLEDGMENTS -->
## Acknowledgments

Douglas Russel, for being our coach, helping us improve our software process with useful advice 

Dima Maneuski, for being a great customer

<p align="right">(<a href="#top">back to top</a>)</p>
